why B2B companies need
[Music]
evangelists welcome back to a fresh
episode of Breaking
bb.com I'm your host Sam Dunning and if
you want to join thousands of Legends
enjoying past podcast episodes check out
our daily newsletter or if you want to
apply to work with us head over to break
bb.com so today my guest is Logan LS
he's the Evangelist and content Master
over at Teamwork he also runs his own
consultancy we're going be diving into
why B2B companies need evangelists we're
going be doing a bit of a breakdown we
talk about exactly what B2B evangelist
means why you should consider one why
you might want to consider prioritizing
individuals in your or as opposed to
your company brand and diving into a
step by step of how you can play the B2B
evangelist role and make it actually
drive qualified leads Pipeline and
revenue for your business so with that
Logan welcome to the show sir how are we
hey thank you so much Sam that was quite
the intro I love your show love your
content and I'm excited to talk about
this I've been kind of referring to
myself as the evangelists evangelist I'm
evangelizing evangelists evangelism
these days quite a bit on LinkedIn and
on podcast so it's a little bit meta but
I think we'll give people some good
things uh what's going on with
evangelism right now and like you said
I'm always a fan of giving people step
by step some how-tos out of the
conversation not just talking Theory
appreciate it sir so I think you are the
man for the the B B2B evangelist job
when it comes to all s these side of
things so first things first for anyone
that's not familiar with this what the
heck does B2B evangelism mean or what is
a B2B evangelist yeah from here I think
I will kind of hearken to a quote I
heard from one of my friends Ethan but
longtime uh friend and colleague he's
out here in Colorado as well uh has been
a B2B SAS marketer for a long time and
he said evangelism is the purest form of
sales and to me the job of an evangelist
whether that's someone internal like a
chief evangelist we've seen that title
uh come into prominence in BB marketing
maybe not prominence but at least more
uh recognizable and seen than it has
been in past years or as we'll talk
about here there are other sorts of
maybe mini evangelists that you can tap
into as a marketing team or as a Founder
that are maybe outside of your four
digital walls of the company but I think
at its core an evangelist is someone who
is uh you know contributing to what we
said there the purest form of sales
they're evangelizing the problem they
know the market they are sharing helpful
content not so much to immediately sell
but to Rally the community together
around the problem they see the solution
in a different way um there's a little
bit of thought leadership maybe mixed in
there to throw in another B2B marketing
B buzzword but I think to me that's kind
of how I think about evangelism what do
you think there
Sam I like it I like that quote the
purest form of sales it sounds it sounds
pretty epic actually so you you tapped
into a little bit about what's actually
entailed you talk about evangelists kind
of sharing the problem that perhaps your
organization fixes sharing
content so when we say evangelists in a
B2B context for B2B service companies OR
tech companies that are tuning in does
that mean that they're active on social
does that mean they're somewhere else I
mean what are these folks doing we're
going to dive into a step by step later
but I guess from a to wrap a bit of
context around it what are these folks
actually doing in terms of the the work
they're putting in yeah and I think
think to put this into context it it's
worth kind of zooming out and looking at
the market conditions of why evangelists
are necessary for your marketing efforts
right now and to hearken to another
quote from a good friend of mine Jared
Fuller over at reveal he's been really
talking about this concept of how we're
moving from the how economy to the who
economy and essentially what I've heard
him say there is that you know we're
going from the information age to now
information overload right we can all go
to Google we can all go to YouTube and
we can say how do I solve this problem
how do I set up an ABM campaign how do I
rank first on Google right all of those
sorts of things but the thing that is
different now is there's so many more
sources of information that people can
go to for the how what they're often
doing is they they're still Googling
right you're you're one of those who's
evangelizing the the the idea that SEO
is not dead and I agree with you on that
right but at the same time people are
are going to Google but they're saying
who do I know that can give me solid
advice here or maybe I've gone to Google
and I've got maybe three different
answers who do I know that can help me
shortcut my path to learning or my path
to an outcome and a solution and so
they're going to their Network they're
going to their peers right Chris Walker
has been talking about this dark social
concept uh for a long time and so I
think the evangelists they are The Who
that your uh your potential buyers and
your prospects that they trust that
they're thinking of when they ask that
question who can I trust to give me some
valuable information um and so to me
I've really focused on activating those
quote unquote who those evangelists on
social you know my primary um move from
sales 10 years of of sales into bdb
marketing has primarily been driven and
most of my activity has been on LinkedIn
so I see that as you know a key way
where evangelists can can get active
whether they're internal within your
company or external I think LinkedIn is
kind of loow hanging fruit uh where
folks can get involved in creating and
helping distribute other content as an
evangelist there are other ways
obviously podcasting webinars live
streams um other things like that but I
think for most B2B marketers listening
to this uh I think they'd be highly
interested in if if I've identified some
of these evangelists how do I get them
involved in or
oh that that last part just broke off
Logan I don't if that was just my end
but could you repeat that last two ler
oh man I I had a Zinger there too I was
saying you know for most B2B marketers
listening to this um if they especially
if they are getting crickets on their
LinkedIn company page then I think uh
LinkedIn organic and maybe even paid we
can talk about how maybe thought leader
ads can play into this evangelist
strategy here in a bit I think LinkedIn
is some lwh hanging fruit um within the
subset of social media where your
evangelists can get active in
co-creating content and co- Distributing
content with you as a B2B marketing team
or an earlier stage founder got it got
it I think something of you mentioned
just now who do I know that I can trust
in my network that can help with this I
think that's that's so powerful it's
almost like a trump card isn't it
because I can think of so many times in
Years Gone by when just by seeing folks
that I've maybe not even had any
interaction with directly but because in
our case in the tech space where we're
on LinkedIn every hour of the day if
you're me messing around scrolling
around commenting whatever it may be
when it comes to certain topics and I
realized that I might have a
need sometimes these folks just come
into my head purely because I've seen
them in the feed so much posting about
this specific Niche this specific topic
this specific industry that it's almost
a no-brainer there'll be one of the few
people that I reach out to so that
definitely rings a bell and I'm sure
other people can relate to that
too yeah I think that's the question
then you want to ask is if my buyers are
asking this question how are they
answering that question right now who
are the people that they trust who are
the people that have their attention and
some
sometimes
now made it a little bit harder to click
through and search a hashtag but if you
search a hashtag that is commonly used
by your audience right and you find a
post by someone let's say in B2B
marketing it's Chris walker click that
hashtag that says B2B marketing and see
who else is is posting on that right
also talk to your customers ask them a
simple question who are you following on
social who is influencing your thinking
uh those sorts of things another tool
that's uh I I think very helpful in this
area is one from Rand fishkin called
spark Toro that allows you to do
basically what I was talking about there
but more at scale you can go into their
platform and say my audience usually
uses these words in their title or their
description in their profile on social
or they're talking about these things
what are the podcasts they're listening
to what are the YouTube channels they're
subscribed to what are the sites that
they're visiting what are the social uh
handles that they're following check
that out and then start doing some
Outreach and then those can be some of
those external folks maybe a Creator or
an influencer that could be an
evangelist for you in this motion even
if they're not kind of that internal
Chief evangelist got it yeah my next
question was going to be does being an
evangelist for a B2B company is that a
full-time role is the answer it depends
like it can be parttime it can be not is
and is there like a specific person
within your or that you should kind of
think that that's definitely got to be
the Evangelist for um business yeah it's
interesting so in my role at
teamwork.com it kind of started as me
being an evangelist I started hosting
our agency Life podcast because um
agencies both marketing PR web
development those sorts of agencies make
up a good portion of our ICP at
teamwork.com and I came from four years
at a podcast production agency so I knew
our ICP from being our IP so coming on
being the host tapping my network
getting active on LinkedIn and sharing
what we were doing and creating some new
brand awareness for teamwork.com made a
lot of sense now we're kind of expanding
into other Professional Services uh such
as architecture and engineering IT
services consultancies um and those
folks you know maybe I'm not necessarily
the the Evangelist who knows them really
really well and so what I'm kind of
doing is tapping who else can be the
mini evangelists both internally in our
team and externally that really have
expertise in those areas to reach that
ICP maybe they have an existing audience
and they're ready and willing to
participate and collaborate it's a
little bit of an acronym I've created
called that's ear putting your ear to
the market to see who could be your
evangelist and you want to look at their
expertise their AUD audience and
their um ified three types of internal
evangelists and three types of external
evangelist but I think whoever they are
on kind of those six buckets or areas if
you will those are the qualities that
you want with that e a ear uh acronym if
you will like it like it all right that
sets us up nicely so let's dive into a
bit of a a bit of a step by step when it
comes to you you've started off nicely
there by by kind of identifying who we
should look at for of our whether it's
our chief evangelist it sounds like we
could have kind of a dedicated
evangelist and perhaps many evangelists
depending on who has expertise within
the niche is that the first step if we
want to put this into play for our
organization or is there something that
we should do beforehand are you some
kind of research in the market or
planning or similar yeah I think it
really does start with uh I've got five
steps that I typically recommend to
folks and we've been talking about
number one here is identify your
potential evangelists I think kind of
prior to that it's recognizing the need
for it which is kind of what we were
talking about in the open the why the uh
the importance of the who now that we've
moved from the how economy to the who
economy so you're exactly right Sam it
really does start here with
identification uh the following of the
five steps I typically recommend after
identify are then evaluate activate
distribute and then track uh any good
B2B marketing needs to have some
tracking so we want to look at both
qualitative and quantitatively how is
this working in our motion to try and uh
identify evaluate activate and
distribute content with uh our
evangelists and I'll I'll pause right
there I think that word with is really
important you know I don't know if
you've ever heard this phrase Sam but I
chuckled when I heard it on a podcast
the other day and it was marketers ruin
everything and I've seen that happen
right I think that's maybe a little
heavy-handed for us that try to do
marketing well but we can right we can
ruin a lot of things my making them just
feel um feel wrong and I think one way
you could get this wrong is seeing
evangelist as a new channel to
distribute content through rather than a
a new motion and a new group of people
to create content with and distribute
content with so as we talk through these
steps I want people to keep in mind that
with and not through so that we don't
become the marketers that ruin
everything yeah yeah yeah I can
definitely think of a few scenarios
where I've seen marketers butcher stuff
to the ground but
we won't diverge too much as we could go
on for a while so we've gone to Step One
identify who should be the Evangelist so
you said going got step two um evaluate
step three activate step four distribute
and step five I believe track so when it
comes to evaluate what what does that
mean in this context yeah so I think it
starts with those three characteristics
we were talking about um are do they
have expertise audience and Readiness
and I think the big misstep here is so
often we think about the audience right
if we're thinking about an external
evangelist like an influencer or content
creator oh they have uh 100,000
followers on LinkedIn well if they're
not ready and willing to collaborate if
you can't kind of pitch them on some
mutual value to create content together
and distribute it together then it's not
going to be a good fit right or
internally if you're looking at one of
your Executives maybe your Founders I
think Dave gearhart's model of a Founder
brand fits in here as you're looking at
maybe activating an internal evangelist
and during my time at sweetfish the
podcast production agency I was
mentioning earlier uh we saw so many
clients come in and say we want to start
a podcast our CEO is going to be the
host he's so uh charismatic he's got all
these connections and all this expertise
but it was like pulling teeth to get
them to show up to uh host a weekly
podcast or even a bi-weekly podcast so
if that Readiness isn't there then it's
kind of a non-starter and so from there
I recommend people start small start
internal first and then move external
because again this is very it's about
the who right so the relationships are
important it's not just hey let's flip
on another tactic let's start posting on
Tik Tok or whatever the case is right
and so there are some nuances to how you
pitch those people how you keep them
engaged how you motivate and incentivize
them those sorts of things so I would
say start small and start internal maybe
it is one of those Executives and you
kind of want to execute founder brand
and then you move to kind of employee
advocacy program and then you're like
well this is really working I could take
this exact same motion and use this to
activate that external influencer and
I've kind of learned some of the nuances
of managing those internal
relationships yeah yeah good point I
mean I wasn't even considering external
when we started the conversation so
you're saying that it typically makes
sense to start with someone within the
company and then kind of get some kind
of consistently consistent flowing M
with that Cadence whatever that looks
like whether it was a podcast posting
content on LinkedIn or another Channel
and then once that's flowing perhaps
look for external influences I'm
guessing if we're looking at from a
LinkedIn perspective perhaps a Creator
that's got a decent audience that fools
within your Niche that talks about the
topics that are relevant to your
industry yep and there could be an
individual Creator or they could be an
individual within a brand that also has
the eyes and ears of your audience right
so for in my case at teamwork.com I
started looking at especially when we
were really focused in on agencies okay
there's folks like Pete Kuda who have
consulted hundreds of agencies in his
time building the HubSpot partner
program right uh the folks in and around
the HubSpot ecosystem right those sorts
of folks how can I build relationships
uh with those people create content with
them and to give you an example of kind
of how this went from internal to
external as a quick example of what we
were talking about there Sam last year
we created at teamwork.com our state of
agency operations report and it was a
big research study and we had a a large
report that generated out of that and of
course we did a webinar to break that
down right um but we're sharing that on
social we're Distributing that report
and I had a screenshot of one of our
company page posts that had like two or
three engagements and one of the things
I did in looking at hey this is an
existing demand gen thing that we're
doing we're doing this report we're
sharing it out on social how can I bring
in an external evangelist to help us
reach a new audience with this existing
content so what I did was I uh I found
Pete at inbound Pete caputa he's the CEO
of datab box if people don't uh know his
name already and I said hey Pete here's
one stat from this report can you kind
of respond to this I'll record it uh got
him on video I chopped that down to a
quick 45 second you know uh short form
video shared that with them and said hey
do you want to share this on LinkedIn I
actually asked him before I created the
video and then that post got over a 100
engagements uh tons and tons of comments
and reposts so that was a good example I
think of um activating an external
evangelist but not in something brand
new like we didn't have a influencer
partner program set up and going so if
you're listening to this and you're an
early stage company or maybe you're a
service-based business like an agency
there are some Motions like this that
you can leverage in your existing
marketing to tap an external evangelist
like in this example with Pete and our
state of agency operations
report any tips so I suppose when you're
finding someone internal to to be in
evangelist it's not as difficult perhaps
I could be wrong feel free to correct me
as finding an external evangelist unless
there's someone already in your network
that you're perhaps following or that's
been recommended yeah any tips for
someone that's perhaps looking for a
brand that's looking for an external
evangelist on the best ways to identify
spose someone that's actually going to
be worthwhile for your company I.E I'm
guessing there's some occasions where
you perhaps
paying them some perhaps you're doing
Partnerships some perhaps it's
reciprocal I guess there's different
ways of working together
right oh it broke up there for just a
second Sam you were saying uh
recognizing those external folks and you
said perhaps Partnerships and then I
missed right after that yeah so I was
saying one I guess it's a two twofold
question one tips on how to identify an
external evangelist that's going to be
worthwhile uh working together with your
company
I.E they've they've got a decent
following that's going to be relevant to
the audience you want to attract and
then secondly whether we should be kind
of offering them payment or whether we
should be doing something in return for
a partnership or maybe we create content
for them and we do something back for us
any tips on kind of that collaboration
front I guess yeah so I think in
identifying the external folks think
about these three buckets I was
mentioning kind of the three internal
three external earlier uh the three
external I kind of bucket into creators
and influenc
Partners so if you have either an
affiliate partner program or a reseller
or solution partner program or maybe you
have a tech partner program right the
partner can mean a lot of different
things so that middle bucket um really
it can be quite big and then third would
be your customers who are those
Advocates um that are saying great
things you know right now we've been
working on a a new process here at
teamwork.com um to we have this kind of
internal celebration Channel when we get
great feedback from a customer and
they're like we love teamwork.com or
your support is amazing and we haven't
had a a steady uh kind of streamlined
process to turn that into content that
then they would be able to share and so
um that's another bucket that just in
real life practicality I'm working on
trying to figure out how do we optimize
that right now so think about those
three um to your first question about
identifying external Partners those
three buckets who do I know in those
create a spreadsheet create three
columns just start listing people start
asking your sales team your CS team who
are these folks that look like this that
uh our customers are talking about and
then when it comes to incentivization is
that a word how to incentivize them
right that's a big word for a Monday
morning uh I need another cup of coffee
but um oftentimes I have found that if
you uh if you I think this was Amanda at
spark Toro that I first heard this from
execute a little bit of permissionless
co-marketing and I've heard you kind of
talk about this uh under a different
name as well Sam just approach them and
and say hey would you be willing to be a
guest in our podcast or be a guest in
our webinar or uh be quoted for this
blog like start with something very
light that you just pitch the mutual
value is very light touch um and low
lift for them and see if they're willing
right and kind of use that then to say
okay well what if we did a series
together where D and you kind of pitch
them on something more it's kind of like
go on that first date before you you
know propose to them and and show them
what you're offering them in payment and
return and all that sort of stuff when
you get to that next phase I found that
often times if you're willing to do a
lot of the heavy lifting of the the
creation then they're they're not always
expecting payment back for a sponsored
post or affiliate commissions and those
sorts of things and just say hey I see
you're talking about this what if I
interviewed you teed you up to talk
about those we created some co-branded
assets out of that and they're like
sweet that's going to you know help me
not have to do so much production on my
content for the next two weeks I'm G to
get it out there um but then you could
go to kind of a pay for performance with
like an affiliate structure if you're
using partner stack or everflow you
could use you know and say hey we're
going to give you 10% of the recurring
Revenue 20% or whatever if they follow
your link but oftentimes you don't have
to kind of go to that third step so
that's kind of how I think about it in
uh sequential order if that makes sense
yeah yeah yeah solid tips I think what
you said that starting with a a small
ask whether that is inviting them to the
show getting them to contribute to an
article going on to a video series like
you say and as as long as it's as long
as they can see that it's genuinely
worthwhile on their part as well i.
we're not doing all this me me me stuff
I you're coming on your show we're going
to steal all the content and get all the
goodies out of it but we're actually
saying look this audience is probably
relevant for you here's how we're going
to promote it um we're going to give you
all these video clips after the article
the artwork we're going to put some paid
spend behind it to distribute it so your
iccp is going to see it you'll probably
get some inbound leads off the back of
it almost makes it a no-brainer right
yeah so yeah go ahead Sam so yeah like
like I was saying really I think it's
understanding from that prospects that
potential evangelist in your case point
of view what what are they going to get
on the back end of it and I think you
put it quite nicely there yeah yeah and
I think what we're talking about here is
kind of that third step in activation
right and I was sharing on a webinar
recently about this process of um
leveraging maybe leveraging is a bad
word maybe that's going to the through
and not with um but working with your
evangelists in activating them kind of
starting with podcast webinars kind of
um uh a Light Lift kind of interview
based you know when I invite people on
to our monthly webinar series at
teamwork.com one thing that I never do
is ask them to prepare the deck um I
asked them to come on a prep call so
that we can align on the flow and the
talking points and those sorts of things
but I get a lot more people who are
willing and able and give them more time
to focus on promoting the webinar by
taking the heavy lift out of don't come
on and and just present let's agree on
where we want to go and then I'll kind
of turn on my podcast hosting skills and
use that for the webinar to just tease
out the the great content from you and
I'll kind of run the deck as we're we're
doing that another way that you can
activate them is similar to the story I
shared earlier from inbound and kind of
a reaction video to steal kind of a a
term that we see a lot on YouTube is um
use a tool like video ask or vouch that
allows you to collect videos
asynchronously from folks so one thing
another thing we did with that state of
agency operations report is I created a
video ask which it's part of type form
just like a Google form or a type form
you can create a form people can respond
to it and input and answer questions but
what video ask does is allow you to
embed a video and allows the recipient
to reply with a video instead of just
being able to type back text now they
could do either right so picture this
you have uh a piece of content that
you've created a big you know guide or a
report or even just a a nice uh blog
post and then you've identified some of
those external evangelists you send them
a video ask form that says hey it would
be great to get your thoughts on this
portion of this blog post or this stat
out of the report you don't have to meet
them up and Corner them at a conference
like I did in that example you could
just Identify some of those people from
that spreadsheet we talked about
starting earlier and just send them an
email and you can use that same form to
send it to all of those potential
external evangelists have them reply
with video and then bring that into a
tool and and have that branded um you
know with your colors and font and that
sort of stuff and now you've got content
to share on your side and then you can
give that back to the Evangelist again
taking the content production off their
plate and saying hey here's a 60-second
snippet where we made you sound really
smart we cut out out all the ums and the
silences and put captions on it so that
you can share this on social tomorrow
yeah yeah yeah so like you say doing a
lot of that heavy lifting so if you are
using external evangelist just making it
super easy for them to participate do
the little piece of work and then you do
the rest in terms of putting it together
producing delivery and all that good
stuff cool I just want to take a little
step back so for folks that have tuned
in so far listened or watched and
thought quite like the sound of this B2B
evangelist stuff uh sounds like there
could be some some results to be gained
if a company is starting let's say light
touch I identified someone in the
organization they think can speak to the
problem they fix there preps already got
a small following in their Niche around
the audience they want to actually be
talking to is there like a flow a
Cadence whatever you want to call it
that they should be following I.E if
we're on LinkedIn they should maybe do
two three posts a month or if we're on a
podcast if you're doing x amount a month
yeah that is going to be I guess a light
touch start or what you recommend Logan
perhaps from clients that you've helped
so they can steadily get into it and I
guess see some kind of results rather
than kind of doing it once leaving it
for a couple months getting back into it
is there a I guess a light touch way
that a company that's brand new to this
that wants to start to internally should
consider yeah I think like you said if
you have a podcast or a webinar series
some sort sort of ongoing pillar content
especially if it's interview based like
you know I've seen you talk about in a
post I think this week on LinkedIn like
podcasting and interview based content
is a great way to to network right but
oftentimes if you're early stage
thinking about man we got to release a
podcast every week or even every other
week um we don't even have it launched
yet how do we get that set up in all the
directories should we have it on YouTube
if we're going to spend our time doing
this so one way that I've seen people
work around this and I've done some
Consulting to to end is set up a a
monthly recording call with that
internal evangelist let's say it's your
founder right and get away from the we
have to launch a podcast and we have to
because sometimes people do that just
for the micro content but then they get
in their own way and like okay what are
we going to name it they start looking
at the downloads and all these sorts of
things and they forget initially we just
wanted to get our CEO talking and get
him on video out on LinkedIn well just
focus on that endgame that you've
decided is a priority set set up a
monthly recording call you can use a
tool like riverside. FM if you want to
uplevel the Quality just a little bit
from Zoom it's just like jumping on a
zoom call hit record and just have the
conversation what are you seeing what
conversations have you had in the
industry ask them some point of view
Discovery questions you know what's a
commonly held belief about x x being
your industry that you passionately
disagree with and I think setting up a
monthly uh content call with that
internal evangelist your founder or
executive or your CEO whoever he or she
is with the intention that you're going
to leave most of it on The Cutting Room
floor that removes kind of the pressure
for from you as the marketer and um the
contributor that internal evangelist and
then you have one one hour session you
could easily get two three posts a week
you know A month's worth of content
where you've got 8 12 15 maybe even 20
posts out of that one session and just
start there but don't put yourself in
the position of well we also have to
edit the full length and get it on Apple
and get it on YouTube and all those
sorts of things that would be ideal but
again if you're early stage and you only
have so many resources focus on kind of
that quicker win getting it out to
LinkedIn sooner it's the age-old thing
thing I find with not just marketing but
pretty much getting anything done in B2B
companies they always think they've got
to run before they can walk so like you
laid out perfect there yeah that one
month recording session be it your CEO
be it your marketing leader whoever is
the subject matter expert just saying
look we're gonna do a light touch we're
going to do a session on video Riverside
Zoom whatever one hour every Friday
morning yeah maybe we do it face to face
maybe we do it digital whatever works
best and then we're gonna just talk
about what you know about it's not going
to be high pressure you're literally the
expert in this subject we're going to
ask you questions around what you know
your point of view maybe we'll throw in
some common sales questions there maybe
we'll throw in some common sales
objections maybe you ask you about
what's going on the industry now um
maybe we'll throw in some stuff we've
seen other similar creators on LinkedIn
and get your point of view on that like
like you say it's it's such a
comfortable thing for their point of
view go ahead yeah and it overcomes some
of the common obstacles because you
might have that CEO like our our CEO at
teamwork.com Peter Coppinger he was an
agency founder himself he's very uh he's
very well spoken he knows the industry
he knows our ICP right but saying hey
Peter can can you post on LinkedIn can
you write some new content right like
even the founder who is a great writer
that they don't necessarily have time to
stare at that blinking cursor in a
Google doc or in the LinkedIn draft
window right and so you overcome that
and just saying hey let me get you
talking right which those executives are
great at at showing up and responding to
those questions the other thing that
this overcomes and I recently came
across a company called matchbook uh
look up Tom Ciro uh and the team uh at
matchbook um pairing creators with uh
companies um on LinkedIn they uh are
starting to talk about this idea of a
ghost host so let's say you're like I
could do this but Logan I'm not a
podcast host I can't kind of you know
manage a live stream host a podcast like
I have this great executive and I want
to get stuff out of them but I can't
kind of play that role of host in a
public facing format or maybe I just
don't want to right be that quote
unquote ghost host who just shows up to
that 1-hour recording session on
Riverside with that internal executive
that you're turning into evangelist and
just ask them the questions and never
appear in the video just chop out their
side of it right because Riverside for
example gives you the host and the guest
track just take the quote unquote guest
track and that's your evangelist content
and you can kind of step back and you
don't have to step into the Limelight so
I just want to touch on some of the more
human
uh obstacles that I think some people
are facing that sometimes we don't talk
about we just jump to the tactics and we
just assume well we should just do this
in B2B marketing but what about the
personalities and the skill sets of
different people here great Point great
point exactly like you say like everyone
has their skill set I.E some people are
great at copywriting so they that in
their case they might be super good at
writing long form LinkedIn posts blog
articles and they'll be killer they'll
Engage The Audience but they hate being
on audio or they hate being on camera
and then well they might not be the best
fit they might be able to do some killer
copy and kind of talk about some of the
problems you fix and kind of portray
your their point of view and various
other things but then you might have
someone in your team that is great on
camera and like you said you might have
a host that can ask great questions but
they don't want to be on video exactly
yeah a great summary man just
understanding folks skill sets whether
they are internally or externally is is
sound advice and then understanding how
he can play to their strengths yeah um
appreciate that's going to be a lot
tougher if you're in a smaller company
perhaps it's just you and a couple
others so you'll have to think what's
works and you might have to step outside
your comfort zone which is one of those
things in business but if you've got the
I guess the luxury of a being in a
bigger organization then you can kind of
take people's skill sets and and use
that to to what fits best nice so I
think we've done of those five steps I
think we've done identify evaluate
activate have we touched on distribute
number four I I don't think we have and
uh a couple of things it kind of ties
into what you were just saying there so
it was just a natural segue for uh folks
who want to level up their hosting
skills just listen to Sam show and
listen to what he's doing in addition to
the content and do the opposite yeah
no uh but you know I've come across
another tool that I've been using in my
own podcast production I think uh
applies here to help you distribute more
especially if you're early stage and you
have limited resources like Sam was just
saying uh check out cast magic so it is
a tool that uh has podcast implications
but could have also implications here in
activating evangelist or just doing a
recording call so what cast magic can do
is use the power of uh an AI engine like
I believe it runs on chat GPT but
without having to give it all individual
prompts and it can take longer audio and
video and transcribe it so you have to
give chat GPT a transcript that you've
generated and then give it all these
different prompts so for instance if you
have a podcast or you're doing this kind
of monthly recording session with a
quote unquote ghost host if we want to
keep going with that term that we've
been talking about the last five minutes
or so you drop that into cast magic and
that can turn your content into a Blog
article into a tweet thread into a
LinkedIn post and as with most AI is it
going to be 100% amazing maybe not but
it might give you 60 70% of the way
there to accelerate that content
production so that you can say oh yeah
this was a really good summary this did
pull out four of the five things that I
probably would let me add to this and
tweak it now I've got a tweet thread
that I can push out through um through
that evangelist so I think tools like
that on the creation side will help you
with the distribution and then I think
uh on the the actual pushing out and
distribution piece um thinking about
LinkedIn thought leader ads so uh a lot
of people especially if you're early
stage like oh LinkedIn advertising way
too expensive right the freaking tting
you can get on LinkedIn is is Bar None
in B2B right you and I both know this
Sam and what's really interesting is
LinkedIn has now in the last year or so
rolled out uh a a feature that if you
haven't heard of it called LinkedIn
thought leader ads so if content is
being shared by one of your employees
they can post that organically it's
getting reactions it's getting comments
you can say hm our CEO's post just got
50 reactions and 30 comments like that's
pretty good for them let's put some paid
spend behind that and uh show that post
to either a targeted list of accounts
you can upload you know your specific
Target account list if you're in a more
account-based environment in B2B which
most of us kind of are or your
parameters of I want it to go to
manufacturing companies between 50 and
um 500 employees in the US da D D D um
and Linkedin is I hear maybe even
expanding this to external people so Sam
let's say I identify you as an external
evangelist we create some content
together you share that kind of similar
to what we were talking about before and
it really goes off um now I could maybe
even promote that to exactly the right
targeted audience that I want to on
LinkedIn that Still Remains to be seen
but a way around that is you could add
to your work experience as an adviser to
teamwork.com or a partner in your work
experience and now you're quote unquote
an employee as far as linkedin's
concerned and now we could leverage
LinkedIn thought leader ads to
distribute that even more effectively so
I'm talking about you know some things
that might be new to folks and some
things that are maybe still coming but
um just a few quick things to think
about on the distribution piece because
the content is nothing if no one ever
sees it yeah I like it I like it we had
Justin r impactable on the show not long
after LinkedIn ads thought leadership
ads got released which was yeah like you
say a few months back now but yeah I
think there's there's a lot of
possibilities now with LinkedIn thought
lead thought leader ads especially as
they are like you mentioned I believe
allowing you to have folks aren't
necessarily within your company to be
able to promote posts on their end as
well so like you said perhaps you have
got external evangelists that maybe
could could say they're an advisor at
your company or not and allowing them to
then boost that post effectively to
their Network to Their audience to get
the bang for buck but like you said
there a really good tip is to if a post
already resonates so if we're talking
from LinkedIn perspective if it's
getting some organic engagement it's
getting likes it's getting comments it's
getting shares you can see that people
are actually resonating with it striking
a chord and then amplifying that with
paid spend I think that's the smart moo
rather than just guessing which is the
same for most content right yeah exactly
and that was a tip I got from Justin row
uh which I connected with him after you
were a guest on our agency Life podcast
so you know this this whole idea of kind
of living in the market identifying
evangelists it Tak some networking it
takes some work but I think this
conversation is kind of a little bit of
a meta example of how that can happen
cuz that's where I kind of heard this
idea from Justin of let let your
LinkedIn post kind of uh from the
individuals let it play out organically
kind of see what pops because one then
you're putting paid spend behind
something you have some validation in
already rather than guessing and two
when it does get promoted the thing
about thought leader ads is they look
more organic because you've got
someone's little face their Avatar there
right now you see the likes and the
comments and the repost to it it looks
even more organic um and you're more
likely to engage with it even though it
has that little tiny thing that says
promoted um the other thing just to um
not to go too deep on this this rabbit
hole but one thing to think about is you
and I both know Sam and a lot of B B2
B2B marketers listening to this um know
this if you put a link in your post on
LinkedIn that can really hurt the
organic reach I have one uh company I
was uh looking at their LinkedIn
performance across some of their
internal evangelists and it was a 47%
decrease on their LinkedIn posts that
had a link in it versus one that didn't
or had it in the comments and so what
you can do is you have this post you see
if it kind of Pops off for that internal
or external evangelist then you go and
promote it via LinkedIn thought leader
ads you can edit it and now add the link
because originally you're trying to get
organic reach now you're paying for the
reach and you want to optimize
conversion now add the link in that was
a tip I got from Justin as well
yeah yeah yeah it's a great one it's a
great one I'm always messing around with
a LinkedIn post man um sometimes if I
think my post are popping off
organically then I'll feel like okay two
hours later I'm going to edit it I'm
going to put a CTN and Link in try and
get a few snag a few newsletter signups
or drive a few few more visits to my
traffic to my website so great tips
there's there's like you say there's
almost Endless Possibilities that you
can do with that you can Target account
lists you can drive it to cold audiences
that maybe fit your ideal client profile
in terms of business size decision
makers you want to Target and so on you
can even retarget existing traffic from
your website identify those and then put
layers on that so then it hones in your
ICP so there's there's a lot of plays
and I'm glad you brought it up is there
any on a side note Logan are there any
slightly unusual or lesser known ways or
perhaps different approaches that you've
seen when it comes to Distributing the
content that you're creating with
evangelist be it internal or external
that have played out nicely H um um
let's see that is a really good question
and I know as a podcast host when my
guests say that's a really good question
they don't have something right off the
top of their head so that's what I'm
telling you um to me it's really been
it's been LinkedIn I mean I think one
thing here that most people maybe have
thought about already but if we're
honest with ourselves we don't actually
execute is that we create one piece of
content let's say it's a 45 second video
clip from this podcast interview right
and what do we normally do we either
post it from our side and then we ask
the guest to hit repost or we give it to
them and maybe they post it and then we
hit repost you have that one piece of
content that should be distributed with
multiple evangelists so go ahead and
post that through the company page but
then three days later post it through
the host's personal profile then uh work
with your guest on when they're going to
post it so using that one piece of
content multiple times um I do think
changing up the copy and that sort of
stuff but I don't think that LinkedIn is
going to penalize you for having that
same video go across like I've seen kind
of people do takeover times or like when
refin Labs hit some sort of milestone in
their in their growth they had this
video like celebrating the Milestone and
I saw it all over LinkedIn for a week
not because they posted it once or they
even had their CEO post it which you
know he's a great example Chris Walker
no longer CEO of refine Labs but anyhow
um you know they didn't just have him
post it and then have the whole team go
and hit repost or even comment that's a
good step one but then they had natively
new posts going out with that same piece
of content and so I think that's maybe
not completely novel I feel like I'm not
living up to the the hype of that
question but something that I think a
lot of people are missing and if you're
honest with yourself you could maybe do
this week and tweak with some of your
existing distribution strategies and get
a little bit more juice for the squeeze
as uh I've heard before no I like that I
like that for sure I think that's smart
I think One Challenge I've seen I don't
know if you've come across the same
Logan this is going on on a bit of a
tangent but as a podcast host I've
always seen that you're probably much
the same with your show Once We once we
set a show live we send out guests a
promotional kit which will have I don't
know three between three and five
promotional video Snippets under a
minute there artwork and of course the
links to the show we say if you if
you're kind enough to share this with
your network we've cut up some nice clip
so you can easily just past it we even
maybe me put some prompts for the
Post usually it's quite a slim rate of
folks that guest on the show that
actually want to do it
um maybe 50% so I don't know if you've
you've seen the same but it sounds like
you have I've seen some shows that I've
consulted on and and worked on where
it's below the the 50% and I can tell
you recently I had a guest on one of the
podcasts that I host and we had like
maybe six seven eight clips and uh you
know those weren't shared um on the
guest side that is uh we did go through
you know the process we've been talking
about here to share it otherwise but I
think one way to head this off uh my
buddy Joseph Luen who just went out on
his own I don't know the name of his new
company but he was with proofo marketing
for a number of years when I was a guest
on their podcast you know most people uh
when you're guesting on a podcast we
send a calendly or a HubSpot meeting
link or something like that or maybe a
Google form to get a little bit of
information from the guest he had a
question in there that said you know
would you be interested in Sharing
content from this episode with your
audience it was like nope not interested
or yeah give me all the content I'll
definitely share it and I thought that
was a nice touch to kind of uh one feel
them out cuz some people will be very
excited and like give me more give me
more I've had guests like do you have
any more clips and I'm like I can spin
up some more if you want if you're
actually going to share them and then
I've had exactly what you said there put
all this time into creating content for
them to use to promote their episode and
then it doesn't happen so I think asking
the question early earlier in a form is
one way you could also do it just kind
of pre- interiew of like hey Sam you're
going to be a guest on the show I'm
going to create probably three uh videos
out of this uh I've been experimenting
with the 4x5 aspect ratio on LinkedIn
and then doing the 9 by6 on YouTube
shorts and and Instagram um you know
what channels do you think you might
share it on uh if I got you some video
clips oh I'm really trying to do more
YouTube shorts right now sweet I'll get
you three of the 9x6 format you know if
you'll plan on sharing those out by the
way if you share them in the first week
the episode goes live that's really you
know a a good thing oh yeah I could do
that okay what day do you think and so
just by kind of it's a little bit of an
assumptive close there um that you can
use uh by offering them some options to
say this or that to um you can kind of
get that pre-commitment is it still 100%
even with that no because we're all
humans right and we get busy and all
those sorts of things but I think that
can help mitigate a little bit of that
here's your promo kit crickets
yeah no that that's that's such a great
tip man setting expectations up front
and I love that adding it to your
calendar invite or adding it to the
calendly question like when you're
collecting their name email and all that
good stuff about the recording maybe
asking about topics they they they want
to speak about and then saying would
would you be open to to sharing content
when it's live and obviously if they say
hard no you can save everyone time but
then I suppose flipping that to perhaps
if you got an internal evangelist and
perhaps if it's your CEO and perhaps
they just say I'm too busy to to be
doing LinkedIn post then you know that
your team's got to spend some time
perhaps doing that on their behalf yeah
yeah and I mean there are some ways that
you can do that if it's internal then uh
often times that executive may be
willing to give you access to you know
their LinkedIn profile to post for them
we all know a lot of big LinkedIn
creators they have Ghost Riders and they
have you know Gary ve is a and Alex
heroi are not hitting the post button on
LinkedIn and we all know that and we're
okay with that right we know that
they're ultimately the source of the
content you can do the same thing get
access to their to their LinkedIn
profile or you can use a couple of tools
I've recently been looking at we use um
Sprout social for a lot of our social uh
content scheduling at teamwork.com
across Instagram and Linkedin and that
sort of stuff um and I I'm pretty sure I
saw recently that you can actually add
personal profiles to the connected
profiles within Sprout social so you
could even do it in a more automated way
uh a recent tool I also came across that
specific to LinkedIn that might allow
you to set up kind of this team uh
Drafting and posting is authored up uh
without a space authored uh Ed up uh and
then I I think you can create drafts for
people they might have to go in and hit
post but those are maybe three different
ways you could think about um activating
and really Distributing with those
internal evangelists that don't have the
time to go in edit um draft the post
even if you even if it is just copy and
paste you can make it even easier with
for them with just a few tools love it
love it man cool I think we're on to
five yes track absolutely so I'd like to
divide this again into I talk with my my
hands a ton so if you're just listening
to the audio of this checkout the video
version on on YouTube uh on Sam's
channel uh two buckets when it comes to
track quantitative and qualitative so
when I think about the quantitative uh
going back to some of the things we were
talking about if you're looking at
conver versions and maybe you're
dropping those links in maybe after you
boost the post on LinkedIn from your
internal or external evangelist after
they become a LinkedIn thought leader ad
after they've played out organically use
UTM links um or if you're using a
partner uh affiliate tracking uh program
like partner stack or everflow you can
use referral link tracking those sorts
of any sort of Link tracking you can um
you can leverage here in an evangelist
motion just like you would if you
activating any other channel and you're
putting some of those tracking
parameters in so quantitatively on
conversion those are two things to think
about quantitatively on reach and impact
maybe your goal isn't necessarily
conversion which I would encourage you
to think about how can I just create
more reach and awareness and hopefully
Affinity that will then lead to
conversion further down the road and so
if LinkedIn is the primary Channel
you're activating and distributing
content with your evangelist as we're
talking about today Shield is a great
analytic ICS platform for LinkedIn um
that you can use as well the previous
tool I mentioned authored up that helps
you with like Drafting and looking at
stuff across profiles may have some
tracking built into it now as well so
those are two that you can look at uh
from a quantitative measurement
perspective to see what posts are
popping off how much reach are we
getting how much follower growth um
maybe you've got a system where you
activate your CEO and then you're a
marketing leader and then maybe you've
got an ambitious salesperson who wants
to to be an internal mini evangelist as
well you can look at the team's uh
metrics in shield and look at um how
things are going over time that helps
you track helps you prove the ROI and
also helps you keep those evangelists
motivated because let's face it you know
there's a little bit of gamification
that probably needs to happen here um it
was funny I was interviewing Ryan
muselman for my show nearb marketing and
he said if you have an employee
evangelist program what people often
Miss is an official optin official sign
up and official rewards and so if you
don't have that rhythm of showing them
how it's going how it's contributing
then it kind of all falls flat and
nothing's quote unquote official it's
just all kind of like will you do this
you did it okay will you do it again how
how about here's how it went here's what
you could do better here's the impact of
that so think about those those are all
the quantitative side um we'll share
some qualitative stuff but I'll pause
there and let you uh jump in Sam yeah I
like those points I like the
gamification so I imagine certainly if
we loop back to what you talked about
earlier Logan where you said kind of
sharing perhaps you have done that once
a month session with your CEO then
you're encouraging the rest of your team
to share that perhaps on a sit out
Cadence if there's not really anything
in it for the rest of your team and
you're just saying look you need to
share this every Friday or every Monday
and Wednesday you need to your finger I
could do that but I don't really want to
I'd rather promote my side hustle or
whatever I'm doing whereas if there's
some kind of
incentive then they're much likely much
more likely to do it like what's in it
for them if just sharing the CEO's post
or doing their own post trying to think
of what to put or maybe you've given
them content for the post if it is on
LinkedIn yeah but even so I like the
idea of gamifying it and give them a bit
of a boost for of actually doing that
for your organization so that's nice
yeah um I suppose the other thing I
would be curious to know is and I'm sure
that the audience would be here as well
is so we can see that if you're having
cool to actions in the post be it
linking in the comments or LinkedIn or
be it directly putting a link perhaps
with the UTM in the post at a lat stage
which might be through to booking a demo
it might be requesting more information
it might be joining your newsletter
getting a lead magnet whatever
right that aside is there a timeline
that you've seen from starting an
evangelist program to actually seeing an
impact on
pipeline I qualified leads coming in
that are then you can attribute to the
Evangelist maybe they filled out a form
and said I was constantly seeing this
person's posts or they raised it on a
sales SCH I've constantly seen
evangelist content from this person on
your um your
team is there some kind of measurement
that we can have in our mind I.E it's
going to take this long before we see
anything off the back of it I think that
it can happen very very quickly so the
uh the company I was mentioning earlier
that I was taking a look at some of
their LinkedIn content and their
strategy for them they saw one of their
Executives gain 1,200 followers in her
first four posts on LinkedIn she had
been on LinkedIn for 10 plus years and
literally never posted and gained 1,200
followers in her first four posts now
that's kind of on the reach and impact
you're talking more about seeing some
results like qualified opportunities
maybe some pipeline uh that same agency
saw um their Executives get get leads
via text via their DMS in the first 30
days of starting to put out content from
their internal evangelist that they were
activating um one of those was H it it
was pretty much like this it was hey I'm
at a new company now and we've worked
together in the past and your most
recent LinkedIn post made me think of
you it was literally like and then
texted the individual and it was kind of
one of those like new phone who this uh
it was like I don't recognize this
number it's like oh it's so and so from
this company we worked together two
years ago and so was that maybe
reactivation of a previously warm Leed
sure but would they have come to mind
had they not been top of Mind through
that new LinkedIn content we don't know
exactly right so I would say in the
first 30 60 90 days there should be some
some indicators that something's
happening I suppose that's that's just
maybe think that there's so many more
plays and i' I've seen this play out on
LinkedIn I'm sure you're the same Logan
that we know this as we're actively
creating content not just on LinkedIn
but other channels that all this stuff
isn't good for creating net new pipeline
I with folks that have maybe recently
started following your recently senior
stuff but it's also good for prospects
that maybe dropped off the pipeline I
spoke to them last year maybe they move
roles they move jobs something happened
they tried to do it internally and
failed they're constantly seeing your
content they're thinking we've crashed
and burned at this I'm going to reach
back out to L I'm going to reach back
out to Sam um or they're already in your
pipeline it's just a slow burner slow
moving opportunity and because they've
seen you consistently posting stuff that
actually resonates strikes a core talks
about the problems they have maybe Shar
some results answers questions in their
Niche that they thought well this is
this is the only person for the job so
it's almost sped up the deal cycle so
there's so many added benefits rather
than just net New Opportunities of
speeding up deal velocity increasing
kind of likeliness to go with you and
being remembered I suppose yeah
absolutely it reminds me of um one of
the podcasts that I host that we've
talked about previously agency Life by
teamwork.com uh we did an entire episode
on what Dev Basu calls the dead dead
lead revivor and uh going through this
process of you mark something Clos lost
in HubSpot right and you put in a
sequence to kick off six months from now
right that that has a series of emails
and maybe now with this sort of content
that you're posting you can even link to
a LinkedIn post you can link to a
podcast episode right in that sequence
to follow up something that is very uh
applicable uh to that prospect's problem
so I think you're you're spot on there
and then I think uh you know we talked
about quantitatively tracking but don't
forget about the qualitative stuff if
you're getting texts or DMs like that
one agency we were just talking about a
moment ago that um I had been helping a
little bit um share those internally you
know present those on on that MBR if
you're looking at how's our evangelist
program uh going with your leadership
team qualitatively you can also use if
you're using gong or any sort of call
recording tool make sure that you or
your sales team are asking kind of an
open-ended how did you hear about us
right how did you hear about breaking
B2B how did you hear about teamwork.com
and if you have keyword trackers built
into gong or fathom or whatever tool
that you're using um you can put in
keywords like LinkedIn podcast
uh live stream those sorts of things and
start to then manually bucket those um
and attribute those uh a little bit and
then the other piece kind of tied to
this uh idea is self-reported
attribution on your actual book of demo
forms or uh schedule a consultation form
those sorts of things and having that
open text field that Chris Walker and
the folks at refine Labs have been
evangelizing for a long time um because
people will tell you things that they
wouldn't in that dropdown of Google ads
LinkedIn content friend billboard right
whatever they'll say I've been following
Sam's LinkedIn content for a long time
just recently checked out the podcast
and listen to this episode and they will
tell you more when you give them a
little bit more space so those can
contribute to your qualitative tracking
of your evangelism efforts as
well appreciate it man and appreciate
the breakdown I think we've we've
covered almost every nook and cranny I
think we've given you've given some
sound advice so even folks that are may
be in a startup maybe it's just them as
the founder on how they can get started
and then right through to larger
organizations that've got multiple
members of the team on how perhaps you
can use the CEO or another industry
expert within your organization and how
you can do that monthly session how you
can then repurpose that content perhaps
leveraging AI perhaps not and then
involving the rest of your team to then
get that content distributed in front of
the Right audience and then be able to
track it effectively and perhaps even
involve external
evangelists so with that I want to thank
you very much Logan for coming on the
show really appreciate you sharing your
expertise please do tell everyone more
about how they can learn from you
connect with you and the best way to get
in touch yeah two places if you are a
founder or a leader of an agency or a
professional service firm of any type
especially in B2B I am hosting a a
bi-weekly podcast called agency life
where we're interviewing agency Founders
and leaders uh about marketing their
agency running operations building a
great team we've got a great marketing
name Eric Sue coming up uh a very
successful agency leader on the show
here very soon so check out agency life
you can get that at teamwork.com
agencylife for me personally LinkedIn is
where I'm most active if you couldn't
tell from today's conversation uh so
just look me up l o g- n l y l s Logan
lyes on LinkedIn and right in my profile
I've got a link to my free content
toolkit so as you could hear I'm a bit
of a geek I'm a bit of a Tech head I'm
always saying like check out this tool
for this and this tool for this and
shortcut this uh I've got a lot of those
linked right in my bio under my profile
photo um so connect with me on LinkedIn
let me know you heard uh heard me on
Sam's show and uh check out that toolkit
right uh in my profile appreciate it
dude and we shall put those links in the
show notes below I want to thank you
once again Logan really enjoy the chat
thanks so much for having me Sam always
good to talk to you my friend cheers man
and we've got to give a quick shout out
to the sponsor of the show Revenue hero
and factors AI for making this possible
and a big shout out to the audience for
tuning in or watching today and as
always if you want to join thousands of
Legends checking out past podcast
episodes or the daily newsletter head
over to breaking
bb.com and we shall catch you all on the
next one
[Music]
cheers